Reformatted VS Code documentation (#1601)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/developing-applications/ides/visual-studio-code/vscode-dapr-extension.md

            "request": "launch",
            "name": "Launch Program",
            "skipFiles": [
                "<node_internals>/**"
            ],
            "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.js"
        }
}
```
After scaffolding version of launch.json:
```json
{
     "version": "0.2.0",
     "configurations": [
        {
            "type": "pwa-node",
            "request": "launch",
            "name": "Launch Program",
            "skipFiles": [
                "<node_internals>/**"
            ],
            "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.js"
        },
        {
            "type": "pwa-node",
            "request": "launch",
            "name": "Launch Program with Dapr",
            "skipFiles": [
                "<node_internals>/**"
            ],
            "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.js",
            "preLaunchTask": "daprd-debug",
            "postDebugTask": "daprd-down"
        }
}
```
After scaffolding task.json:

```json
{
	"version": "2.0.0",
	"tasks": [
		{
			"appId": "nodeapp",
			"appPort": 3500,
			"label": "daprd-debug",
			"type": "daprd"
		},
		{
			"appId": "nodeapp",
			"label": "daprd-down",
			"type": "daprd-down"
		}
	]
}

> ```

Reviewer: Way too verbose. I suggest dropping this.

Reviewer: See my open comments for my suggestions

Author: I can just leave, "daprd-debug" for the task.json and  the "Launch Program with Dapr" content then. that way each JSON example is only like 4 to 6 lines.

Author: Submitted a change to this let me know if it matches what you believe would be useful for a user.

---
type: docs
title: "Dapr Visual Studio Code extension overview"

> linkTitle: "Overview"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
linkTitle: "Dapr extension"
```

Author: Hey with this change, I believe @orizohar might prefer the Overview link title, he mentioned that making this overview would give users a place to start in.

Reviewer 2: I think it all depends on the context. When the hierarchy just said "Visual Studio Code" I can see Aaron's point. Now that you updated it to "Visual Studio Code integration with Dapr" I think "Overview" makes sense and is consistent with the rest of the docs

Reviewer: The issue here is that the Visual Studio Code section has 3 articles in it which are disjoint: a user won't go to both the extension page and the manual setup page. It's one or the other. Overview means all the pages are related and it's introducing all the pages. In this case we want users to pick one of the 3 options. If anything we need a separate page called "Overview", but not this one

Author: I do agree that there are disjointed in the sense that they don't necessarily go hand in hand. What would a "Overview" page for this even look like though considering its a IDE page?

weight: 10000

> description:  "Information on how to develop and run Dapr applications with the Dapr extension"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description:  "How to develop and run Dapr applications with the Dapr extension"
```

---

Dapr offers a *preview* [Dapr Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-dapr) for local development and debugging of your Dapr applications.

<a href="vscode:extension/ms-azuretools.vscode-dapr" class="btn btn-primary" role="button">Open in VSCode</a>

> ## Features Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features
```

> ### Scaffold Dapr Tasks 

Reviewer 2: "Tasks" --> "tasks"

* Helps scaffold VS Code task.json and launch.json configurations needed to debug your application within the Dapr environment.
* Requires an already existing launch.json files to be found in the VS Code workspace.

> * Example NodeJS App:

Reviewer 2: "App" --> "app"

Before scaffolding version of launch.json configurations:
```json
{

>      "version": "0.2.0",
>      "configurations": [
>         {
>             "type": "pwa-node",
>             "request": "launch",
>             "name": "Launch Program",
>             "skipFiles": [
>                 "<node_internals>/**"
>             ],
>             "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.js"
>         }
> }
> ```
> After scaffolding version of launch.json:
> ```json
> {
>      "version": "0.2.0",
>      "configurations": [
>         {
>             "type": "pwa-node",
>             "request": "launch",
>             "name": "Launch Program",
>             "skipFiles": [
>                 "<node_internals>/**"
>             ],
>             "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.js"
>         },
>         {
>             "type": "pwa-node",
>             "request": "launch",
>             "name": "Launch Program with Dapr",
>             "skipFiles": [
>                 "<node_internals>/**"
>             ],
>             "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.js",
>             "preLaunchTask": "daprd-debug",
>             "postDebugTask": "daprd-down"
>         }
> }
> ```
> After scaffolding task.json:
> 
> ```json
> {
> 	"version": "2.0.0",
> 	"tasks": [
> 		{
> 			"appId": "nodeapp",
> 			"appPort": 3500,
> 			"label": "daprd-debug",
> 			"type": "daprd"
> 		},
> 		{
> 			"appId": "nodeapp",
> 			"label": "daprd-down",
> 			"type": "daprd-down"
> 		}
> 	]
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scaffold Dapr debugging tasks

The Dapr extension helps you debug your applications with Dapr using Visual Studio Code's [built-in debugging capability](https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/editor/debugging).

The `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Tasks` [Command Palette](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette) operation will update your `task.json` and `launch.json` files to launch and configure the Dapr sidecar when you begin debugging.

1. Make sure you have a launch configuration set for your app. ([Learn more](https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/editor/debugging))
1. Open the Command Palette with `Ctrl+Shift+P`
1. Select `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Tasks`
1. Run your app and the Dapr sidecar with `F5` or via the Run view.
```

Reviewer: Still applicable

> ### Scaffold Dapr Components 

Reviewer 2: "Components" --> "components"

> ### Scaffold Dapr Components 
> * Generates the Dapr component assets needed for general Dapr applications.
> * Provides a Component folder in your VS Code workspace that contains pubsub, statestore and a zipkin yaml file.
> * Example pubsub file:
> 
> ```yaml
> apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
> kind: Component
> metadata:
>   name: pubsub
> spec:
>   type: pubsub.redis
>   metadata:
>   - name: redisHost
>     value: localhost:6379
>   - name: redisPassword
>     value: ""
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scaffold Dapr application components

When adding Dapr to your application, you may want to have a dedicated components directory, separate from the default components initialized as part of `dapr init`.

To create a dedicated components folder with the default `statestore`, `pubsub`, and `zipkin` components, use the `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Components` [Command Palette](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette) operation.

1. Open your application directory in Visual Studio Code
1. Open the Command Palette with `Ctrl+Shift+P`
1. Select `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Components`
1. Run your application with `dapr run --components-path ./components -- ...`
```

Reviewer: Still applicable

> ### View Running Dapr Applications
> * Adds a view container specifically for Dapr applications which when selected displays a tree view called "Applications" which shows locally-running Dapr applications.
> 
> <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-view.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension view running applications option" width="800">
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### View running Dapr applications

The Applications view shows Dapr applications running locally on your machine.

<br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-view.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension view running applications option" width="800">
```

Reviewer: Still applicable

> ### Invoke Dapr Application Methods

Reviewer 2: application methods

> ### Invoke Dapr Application Methods
> * Allows users to select a Dapr application found in the tree view "Applications" and invoke GET/POST methods by name.
> * Allows users to specify an optional payload for POST methods
> <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-invoke.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension invoke option" width="800">
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Invoke Dapr applications

Within the Applications view, users can right-click and invoke Dapr apps via GET or POST methods, optionally specifying a payload.

<br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-invoke.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension invoke option" width="800">
```

Reviewer: Still applicable

> ### Publish Events to Dapr Applications
> * You can publish events to running applications you select in the "Applications" tree view.
> * Allows you to specify both the topic and an optional payload.
> 
>   <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-publish.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension publish option" width="800">
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Publish events to Dapr applications

Within the Applications view, users can right-click and publish messages to a running Dapr application, specifying the topic and payload.

Users can also publish messages to all running applications.

  <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-publish.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension publish option" width="800">
```

Reviewer: Still applicable

## Telemetry

> ### Data Collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data collection
```

> The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described in the repository. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft's privacy statement. Microsoft's privacy statement is located at https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described [in the repository](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-dapr). There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft's privacy statement. Microsoft's privacy statement is located at https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
```

> ### Disabling Telemetry
> If you don’t wish to send usage data to Microsoft, you can set the telemetry.enableTelemetry setting to false. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Disabling Telemetry

If you don’t wish to send usage data to Microsoft, you can set the `telemetry.enableTelemetry` setting to `false`. Learn more in the VSCode [FAQ](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/faq#_how-to-disable-telemetry-reporting).
```

> ## Additional Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Additional resources
```

> ### Debuggin Multiple Dapr Applications At The Same Time
> Using the VS Code extension you can debug multiple Dapr applications at the same time with [Multi-target debugging](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging#_multitarget-debugging)
> 
> ### Dapr Community Call Demonstration
> Watch this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtbYCBt9C34&t=85) on how to use the Dapr VS Code extension:
> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OtbYCBt9C34?start=85" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Debugging multiple Dapr applications at the same time

Using the VS Code extension, you can debug multiple Dapr applications at the same time with [Multi-target debugging](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging#_multitarget-debugging).

### Community call demo

Watch this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtbYCBt9C34&t=85) on how to use the Dapr VS Code extension:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/OtbYCBt9C34?start=85" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

---
type: docs
title: "Dapr Visual Studio Code extension overview"
linkTitle: "Dapr extension"
weight: 10000
description:  "How to develop and run Dapr applications with the Dapr extension"
---

Dapr offers a *preview* [Dapr Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-dapr) for local development and debugging of your Dapr applications.

> 

Reviewer 3: It would be good to have a description in the intro of what the VSCode Extension is useful for, its not just debugging. 
Another thing that is not clear is can use this for any language (or at least the supported Dapr languages). I presume you can, but not sure

Author: Sounds good I will change it to fully recognize its usage, and will add that it does support all languages that support Dapr as it doesn't have any language specific restrictions based on my testing and conversations with Phillip.

<a href="vscode:extension/ms-azuretools.vscode-dapr" class="btn btn-primary" role="button">Open in VSCode</a>

## Features

### Scaffold Dapr debugging tasks

The Dapr extension helps you debug your applications with Dapr using Visual Studio Code's [built-in debugging capability](https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/editor/debugging).

Using the `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Tasks` [Command Palette](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette) operation, you can update your existing `task.json` and `launch.json` files to launch and configure the Dapr sidecar when you begin debugging.

1. Make sure you have a launch configuration set for your app. ([Learn more](https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/editor/debugging))
1. Open the Command Palette with `Ctrl+Shift+P`
1. Select `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Tasks`
1. Run your app and the Dapr sidecar with `F5` or via the Run view.

> 

Reviewer 3: Aren;t there images (screen shots here)?

Author: Not anymore, the old ones only captured a very specific step and aren't needed with a clearly stated instruction sequence that tackles the whole procedure.

### Scaffold Dapr components

> 

Reviewer 3: Is this the only new feature added? I thought that there were others? Will these be in another PR and why have just this one and not say the dashboard button? Is only this one finished?

Author: This was actually not a new feature but a feature that just wasn't captured in the older version as it was made by Phillip in the older versions of Dapr which didn't organize the Components folder automatically for you I believe. The newer features from 0.5 update aren't capture because I didn't want to add a feature I couldn't guarantee would be out when this document would be.

Author: There are new features already implemented but they just aren't in the latest release right now.

When adding Dapr to your application, you may want to have a dedicated components directory, separate from the default components initialized as part of `dapr init`.

To create a dedicated components folder with the default `statestore`, `pubsub`, and `zipkin` components, use the `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Components` [Command Palette](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette) operation.

1. Open your application directory in Visual Studio Code
1. Open the Command Palette with `Ctrl+Shift+P`
1. Select `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Components`
1. Run your application with `dapr run --components-path ./components -- ...`

> 

Reviewer 3: Is there  a screen shots here for consistency?

Author: Sure I can add that if you believe it would be nice would the screen shots be of the whole process or just the end result?

### View running Dapr applications

The Applications view shows Dapr applications running locally on your machine.

<br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-view.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension view running applications option" width="800">

### Invoke Dapr applications

Within the Applications view, users can right-click and invoke Dapr apps via GET or POST methods, optionally specifying a payload.

<br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-invoke.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension invoke option" width="800">

### Publish events to Dapr applications

Within the Applications view, users can right-click and publish messages to a running Dapr application, specifying the topic and payload.

Users can also publish messages to all running applications.

  <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-publish.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension publish option" width="800">

> ## Telemetry

Reviewer 3: We should not have this telemetry statement in the Dapr docs, not only because this is a VS Code issue, but because talking about Microsoft in the docs gathering data is not a good statement to have in the Dapr docs. Dapr is vendor neutral. Remove the telemetry section.

Author: Sounds good! I only added it because it was unclear if we were responsible for stating that information as well as a statement of open source awareness.

---
type: docs
title: "Dapr Visual Studio Code extension overview"
linkTitle: "Dapr extension"
weight: 10000
description:  "How to develop and run Dapr applications with the Dapr extension"
---

Dapr offers a *preview* [Dapr Visual Studio Code extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-azuretools.vscode-dapr) for local development and debugging of your Dapr applications.

<a href="vscode:extension/ms-azuretools.vscode-dapr" class="btn btn-primary" role="button">Open in VSCode</a>

## Features

> ### Scaffold Dapr tasks 
> 
> * Helps scaffold VS Code task.json and launch.json configurations needed to debug your application within the Dapr environment.
> * Requires an already existing launch.json files to be found in the VS Code workspace.
> * Example NodeJS app:
> 
> After scaffolding the launch.json should contain similar snippets:
> ```json
>         {
>             "type": "pwa-node",
>             "request": "launch",
>             "name": "Launch Program with Dapr",
>             "skipFiles": [
>                 "<node_internals>/**"
>             ],
>             "program": "${workspaceFolder}/app.js",
>             "preLaunchTask": "daprd-debug",
>             "postDebugTask": "daprd-down"
>         }
> ```
> After scaffolding the task.json should contain similar snippets:
> 
> ```json
> 		{
> 			"appId": "nodeapp",
> 			"appPort": 3500,
> 			"label": "daprd-debug",
> 			"type": "daprd"
> 		}
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scaffold Dapr debugging tasks

The Dapr extension helps you debug your applications with Dapr using Visual Studio Code's [built-in debugging capability](https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/editor/debugging).

Using the `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Tasks` [Command Palette](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette) operation, you can update your existing `task.json` and `launch.json` files to launch and configure the Dapr sidecar when you begin debugging.

1. Make sure you have a launch configuration set for your app. ([Learn more](https://code.visualstudio.com/Docs/editor/debugging))
1. Open the Command Palette with `Ctrl+Shift+P`
1. Select `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Tasks`
1. Run your app and the Dapr sidecar with `F5` or via the Run view.
```

Reviewer 3: Agree with Aaron here. This is not about showing the feature this is about "how" to use the VS Core Extension feature. I certainly could not  figure out how to use the debug extension without this.

> ### Scaffold Dapr components 
> * Generates the Dapr component assets needed for general Dapr applications.
> * Provides a Component folder in your VS Code workspace that contains pubsub, statestore and a zipkin yaml file.
> * Example pubsub file:
> 
> ```yaml
> apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
> kind: Component
> metadata:
>   name: pubsub
> spec:
>   type: pubsub.redis
>   metadata:
>   - name: redisHost
>     value: localhost:6379
>   - name: redisPassword
>     value: ""
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scaffold Dapr components

When adding Dapr to your application, you may want to have a dedicated components directory, separate from the default components initialized as part of `dapr init`.

To create a dedicated components folder with the default `statestore`, `pubsub`, and `zipkin` components, use the `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Components` [Command Palette](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/userinterface#_command-palette) operation.

1. Open your application directory in Visual Studio Code
1. Open the Command Palette with `Ctrl+Shift+P`
1. Select `Dapr: Scaffold Dapr Components`
1. Run your application with `dapr run --components-path ./components -- ...`
```

Reviewer 3: Same comment here on "How" to use the extension.

> ### View running Dapr applications
> * The Applications view shows Dapr applications running locally on your machine.
> <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-view.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension view running applications option" width="800">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### View running Dapr applications

The Applications view shows Dapr applications running locally on your machine.

<br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-view.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension view running applications option" width="800">
```

> ### Invoke Dapr application methods
> * Allows users to select a Dapr application found in the tree view "Applications" and invoke GET/POST methods by name.
> * Allows users to specify an optional payload for POST methods
> <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-invoke.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension invoke option" width="800">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Invoke Dapr applications

Within the Applications view, users can right-click and invoke Dapr apps via GET or POST methods, optionally specifying a payload.

<br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-invoke.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension invoke option" width="800">
```

> ### Publish events to Dapr applications
> * Within the Applications view, users can right-click and publish messages to a running Dapr application, specifying the topic and payload.
> Users can also publish messages to all running applications.
>   <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-publish.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension publish option" width="800">
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Publish events to Dapr applications

Within the Applications view, users can right-click and publish messages to a running Dapr application, specifying the topic and payload.

Users can also publish messages to all running applications.

  <br /><img src="/images/vscode-extension-publish.png" alt="Screenshot of the Dapr VSCode extension publish option" width="800">
```

## Telemetry

### Data collection

The software may collect information about you and your use of the software and send it to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may turn off the telemetry as described [in the repository](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-dapr). There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with a copy of Microsoft's privacy statement. Microsoft's privacy statement is located at https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704. You can learn more about data collection and use in the help documentation and privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.

> ### Disabling Telemetry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Disabling Telemetry

```

If you don’t wish to send usage data to Microsoft, you can set the `telemetry.enableTelemetry` setting to `false`. Learn more in the VSCode [FAQ](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/faq#_how-to-disable-telemetry-reporting).

## Additional resources

> ### Debugging multiple Dapr applications at the same time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Debugging multiple Dapr applications at the same time

```

Using the VS Code extension, you can debug multiple Dapr applications at the same time with [Multi-target debugging](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging#_multitarget-debugging).

> ### Community call demo

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Community call demo

```
